Welcome to the fourth week of this course.
By now, you've seen forward propagation and
back propagation in the context
of a neural network, with a single hidden
layer, as well as logistic regression, and
you've learned about vectorization, and
when it's important to
initialize the weights randomly.
If you've done the past couple weeks
homework, you've also implemented and
seen some of these ideas work for
yourself.
So by now,
you've actually seen most of the ideas you
need to implement a deep neural network.
What we're going to do this week, is take
those ideas and put them together so
that you'll be able to implement
your own deep neural network.
Because this week's problem
exercise is longer,
it just has been more work,
I'm going to keep the videos for
this week shorter as you can get through
the videos a little bit more quickly, and
then have more time to do a significant
problem exercise at then end, which I hope
will leave you having thoughts deep in
neural network, that if you feel proud of.
So what is a deep neural network?
You've seen this picture for
logistic regression and
you've also seen neural networks
with a single hidden layer.
So here's an example of a neural
network with two hidden layers and
a neural network with 5 hidden layers.
We say that logistic regression
is a very "shallow" model,
whereas this model here is
a much deeper model, and
shallow versus depth
is a matter of degree.
So neural network of
a single hidden layer,
this would be a 2 layer neural network.
Remember when we count layers in a neural
network, we don't count the input layer,
we just count the hidden layers
as was the output layer.
So, this would be a 2 layer neural
network is still quite shallow,
but not as shallow as logistic regression.
Technically logistic regression
is a one layer neural network,
we could then, but
over the last several years the AI,
on the machine learning community,
has realized that there are functions that
very deep neural networks can learn that
shallower models are often unable to.
Although for any given problem, it might
be hard to predict in advance exactly how
deep in your network you would want.
So it would be reasonable to try
logistic regression, try one and
then two hidden layers, and view the
number of hidden layers as another hyper
parameter that you could try
a variety of values of, and
evaluate on all that across validation
data, or on your development set.
See more about that later as well.
Let's now go through the notation we
used to describe deep neural networks.
Here's is a one, two, three,
four layer neural network,
With three hidden layers, and
the number of units in these hidden
layers are I guess 5, 5, 3, and
then there's one one upper unit.
So the notation we're going to use,
is going to use capital L ,to denote
the number of layers in the network.
So in this case, L = 4, and so
does the number of layers, and
we're going to use N superscript
[l] to denote the number of nodes,
or the number of units
in layer lowercase l.
So if we index this,
the input as layer "0".
This is layer 1, this is layer 2,
this is layer 3, and this is layer 4.
Then we have that, for example,
n[1], that would be this,
the first is in there will equal 5,
because we have 5 hidden units there.
For this one, we have the n[2],
the number of units in
the second hidden layer
is also equal to 5, n[3] = 3, and
n[4] = n[L] this number
of upper units is 01,
because your capital L is equal to four,
and we're also going to have here that for
the input layer n[0] = nx = 3.
So that's the notation we use to describe
the number of nodes we have in different
layers.
For each layer L, we're also going to use
a[l] to denote the activations in layer l.
So we'll see later that in for
propagation,
you end up computing a[l] as
the activation g(z[l]) and
perhaps the activation is
indexed by the layer l as well,
and then we'll use W[l ]to denote,
the weights for
computing the value z[l] in layer l, and
similarly, b[l] is used to compute z [l].
Finally, just to wrap up on the notation,
the input features are called x,
but x is also the activations
of layer zero, so a[0] = x,
and the activation of the final layer,
a[L] = y-hat.
So a[L] is equal to the predicted output
to prediction y-hat to the neural network.
So you now know what a deep
neural network looks like,
as was the notation we'll use to describe
and to compute with deep networks.
I know we've introduced a lot of notation
in this video, but if you ever forget
what some symbol means, we've also posted
on the course website, a notation sheet or
a notation guide, that you can use to look
up what these different symbols mean.
Next, I'd like to describe what forward
propagation in this type of network
looks like.
Let's go into the next video.